---
# POST EDITING GUIDELINES
# Set the URL of the page using "permalink"
# Set research topic of the page using "tagline"
# Set the title/subject of the page using "heading"
# Set the headerimg by uploading an image to /assets/images/ and adding the URL to "headerimg"

layout: post
date: 2020-06-23 12:02:24 -0700
tags: velosity
headerimg:
permalink: comet
topic: Tractable Reactive Program Synthesis
heading: "COMET"
description: "COMET synthesizes reactive hardware and software from UNITY protocol specifications."
---
<!-- Project Overview section -->
<div class="container-fluid bg-gray my-5 py-5">
    <div class="container pt-4">
        <P>
	Reactive programs are those that process external events, such as signals
	and messages. Device drivers and cloud microservices are examples of reactive
	programs. A system built from reactive programs is concurrent and
	exhibits a high degree of nondeterminism, making non-exhaustive testing
	inadequate. Specification languages simplify the design and verification of
	algorithms, but specification proofs say nothing about implementations.
	</p>
	<p>
	Program synthesis is one way to bridge this disconnect. A synthesizer
	searches a space of candidate programs for an implementation that satisfies
	the specification. Unfortunately, synthesis of non-trivial programs becomes
	intractable as the search space grows exponentially. Recent work in symbolic
	execution and solver-aided synthesis has advanced the state of the art,
	but symbolic techniques also lead to exponential blowup.
	</p>
	<p>
	COMET is a system for synthesizing reactive programs
	from unbounded nondeterministic iterative transformations (UNITY)
	specifications. Naïve synthesis using symbolic execution scales
	poorly due to the complex values generated by layers of symbolic execution.
	COMET reduces the complexity of symbolic values, enabling task
	decomposition. COMET synthesizes non-trivial programs for sequential and
	concurrent languages by applying three techniques: symbolic execution of
	the specification into guarded traces, intermediate target trace synthesis,
	and recursive synthesis of target expressions. We demonstrate this approach by
	synthesizing Arduino and Verilog implementations from UNITY specifications of the
	Paxos consensus proposer and acceptor roles. COMET synthesizes the acceptor
	and proposer in 11 and 45 minutes respectively.
        </p>
    </div>
</div>
<!-- /Project Overview section -->
<!-- Project Details and Additional Info -->
<div class="container">
    <h6>Additional Information</h6>
        <P>People:
	<a href="https://github.com/chchen">Christopher Chen</a>,
	<a href="https://www.cs.ubc.ca/~mrg/">Mark Greenstreet</a>,
	<a href="https://www.seltzer.com/margo/">Margo Selzer</a>
	</P>
</div>
<!-- /Project Details and Additional Info -->
